= Announce: RubyGems Release 1.3.4

NOTE:  RubyGems 1.1 and 1.2 have problems upgrading when there is no
rubygems-update installed.  You will need to follow the second set of update
instructions if you see "Nothing to update".

Release 1.3.4 fixes some bugs and adds some features.

Bug Fixes:

* Fixed various warnings
* Gem::ruby_version works correctly for 1.8 branch and trunk
* Prerelease gems now show up in `gem list` and can be used
* Fixed option name for `gem setup --format-executable`
* RubyGems now matches Ruby > 1.9.1 gem paths
* Gem::RemoteFetcher#download now works for explicit Windows paths across
  drives.  Bug #25882 by Lars Christensen
* Fix typo in Gem::Requirement#parse.  Bug #26000 by Mike Gunderloy.

Deprecation Notices:

* Bulk index update is no longer supported (the code currently remains, but not
  the tests)
* Gem::manage_gems was removed in 1.3.3.
* Time::today was removed in 1.3.3.

For a full list of changes to RubyGems and the contributor for each change, see
the ChangeLog file.

== How can I get RubyGems?

NOTE:  If you have installed RubyGems using a package system you may want to
install a new RubyGems through the same packaging system.

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (you might need to be admin/root)

NOTE:  RubyGems 1.1 and 1.2 have problems upgrading when there is no
rubygems-update installed.  You will need to follow the second set of update
instructions if you see "Nothing to update".

NOTE: You may have to run the command twice if you have any previosly
installed rubygems-update gems.

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== To File Bugs

The RubyGems bug tracker can be found on RubyForge at:
http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?func=add&group_id=126&atid=575

When filing a bug, `gem env` output will be helpful in diagnosing the issue.

If you find a bug where RubyGems crashes, please provide debug output. You can
do that with `gem --debug the_command`.

== Thanks

Keep those gems coming!

-- The RubyGems team

