= How to contribute

Community involvement is essential to RubyGems. We want to keep it as easy
as possible to contribute changes. There are a few guidelines that we need
contributors to follow to reduce the time it takes to get changes merged in.

== Guidelines

1. New features should be coupled with tests.

2. Ensure that your code blends well with ours:
   * No trailing whitespace
   * Match indentation (two spaces)
   * Match coding style (+if+, +elsif+, +when+ need trailing +then+)

3. If any new files are added or existing files removed in a commit or PR, please update the +Manifest.txt+ accordingly.

4. Don't modify the history file or version number.

5. If you have any questions, just ask on IRC in #rubygems on Freenode or file
   an issue here: http://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/issues

For more information and ideas on how to contribute to RubyGems ecosystem, see
here: http://guides.rubygems.org/contributing/

== Getting Started

    $ gem install hoe
    $ rake newb

To run commands like <tt>gem install</tt> from the repo:

    $ ruby -Ilib bin/gem install

== Issues

RubyGems uses labels to track all issues and pull requests. In order to provide
guidance to the community this is documentation of how labels are used in the
rubygems repository.

=== Contribution

These labels are made to guide contributors to issue/pull requests that they
can help with. That are marked with a light gray <tt>contribution: *</tt>

* *small* - The issue described here will take a small amount of work to resolve,
  and is a good option for a new contributor
* *unclaimed* - The issue has not been claimed for work, and is awaiting willing
  volunteers!

=== Type

Most Issues or pull requests will have a light green <tt>type: *</tt> label, 
which describes the type of the issue or pull request.

* <b>bug report</b> - An issue describing a bug in rubygems. This would be something
  that is broken, confusing, unexpected behavior etc.
* <b>bug fix</b> - A pull request that fixes a bug report.
* <b>feature request</b> - An issue describing a request for a new feature or
  enhancement.
* <b>feature implementation</b> - A pull request implementing a feature request.
* *question* - An issue that is a more of a question than a call for specific
  changes in the codebase.
* *cleanup* - Generally for a pull request that improves the code base without
  fixing a bug or implementing a feature.
* <b>major bump</b> - This issue or pull request requires a major version bump
* *administrative* - This issue relates to administrative tasks that need to
  take place as it relates to rubygems
* *documentation* - This issue relates to improving the documentation for
  in this repo. Note that much of the rubygems documentation is here:
  https://github.com/rubygems/guides

=== Workflow / Status

The light yellow <tt>status: *</tt> labels that indicate the state of an 
issue, where it is in the process from being submitted to being closed. 
These are listed in rough  progression order from submitted to closed.

* *triage* - This is an issue or pull request that needs to be properly
  labeled by by a maintainer.
* *confirmed* - This issue/pull request has been accepted as valid, but
  is not yet immediately ready for work.
* <b>ready</b> - An issue that is available for collaboration. This issue
  should have existing discussion on the problem, and a description of how to go
  about solving it.
* <b>working</b> - An issue that has a specific invidual assigned to and planning
  to do work on it.
* <b>user feedback required</b> - The issue/pull request is blocked pending more
  feedback from an end user
* <b>blocked / backlog</b> - the issue/pull request is currently unable to move forward
  because of some specific reason, generally this will be a reason that is outside
  RubyGems or needs feedback from some specific individual or group, and it may
  be a while before something it is resolved.

=== Closed Reason

Reasons are why an issue / pull request was closed without being worked on or
accepted. There should also be more detailed information in the comments. The
closed reason labels are maroon <tt>closed: *</tt>.

* *duplicate* - This is a duplicate of an existing bug. The comments must
  reference the existing issue.
* *abandonded* - This is an issue/pull request that has aged off, is no longer
  applicable or similar.
* *declined* - An issue that won't be fixed/implemented or a pull request that
  is not accepted.
* *deprecated* - An issue/pull request that no longer applies to the actively
  maintained codebase.
* *discussion* - An issue/pull that is no longer about a concrete change, and
  is instead being used for discussion.

=== Categories

These are aspects of the codebase, or what general area the issue or pull
request pertains too. Not all issues will have a category. All categorized
issues have a blue <tt>category: *</tt> label.

* *gemspec* - related to the gem specification itself
* *API* - related to the public supported rubygems API. This is the code API,
  not a network related API.
* *command* - related to something in <tt>Gem::Commands</tt>
* *install* - related to gem installations
* *documentation* - related to updating / fixing / clarifying documentation or
  guides

=== Platforms

If an issue or pull request pertains to only one platform, then it should have
an appropriate purple <tt>platform: *</tt> label. Current platform labels:
*windows*, *java*, *osx*, *linux*
