CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# How to contribute

Community involvement is essential to RubyGems. We want to keep it as easy as
possible to contribute changes. There are a few guidelines that we need
contributors to follow to reduce the time it takes to get changes merged in.

## Guidelines

1.  New features should be coupled with tests.

2.  Ensure that your code blends well with ours:
    *   No trailing whitespace
    *   Match indentation (two spaces)
    *   Match coding style (run `rake rubocop`)

3.  If any new files are added or existing files removed in a commit or PR,
    please update the `Manifest.txt` accordingly. This can be done by running
    `rake update_manifest`

4.  Don't modify the history file or version number.

5.  If you have any questions, Feel free to join us on Slack, you can register
    by signing up at http://slack.bundler.io or file an issue here:
    http://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/issues


For more information and ideas on how to contribute to RubyGems ecosystem, see
here: https://guides.rubygems.org/contributing/

## Getting Started

    rake setup

> Optionally you can configure git hooks with: rake git_hooks

To run commands like `gem install` from the repo:

    ruby -Ilib bin/gem install

To run commands like `bundle install` from the repo:

    ruby bundler/spec/support/bundle.rb install

### Running Tests

To run the entire test suite you can use: 

    rake test

To run an individual test file located for example in `test/rubygems/test_deprecate.rb` you can use: 

    ruby -Ilib:test:bundler/lib test/rubygems/test_deprecate.rb
    
And to run an individual test method named `test_default` within a test file, you can use: 

    ruby -Ilib:test:bundler/lib test/rubygems/test_deprecate.rb -n /test_default/

### Running bundler tests

Everything needs to be run from the `bundler/` subfolder.

To setup bundler tests:

    rake spec:parallel_deps

To run the entire bundler test suite in parallel (it takes a while):

    bin/parallel_rspec

To run the entire bundler test suite sequentially (get a coffee because it's very slow):

    bin/rspec

To run an individual test file location for example in `spec/install/gems/standalone_spec.rb` you can use:

    bin/rspec spec/install/gems/standalone_spec.rb

## Issues

RubyGems uses labels to track all issues and pull requests. In order to
provide guidance to the community this is documentation of how labels are used
in the rubygems repository.

### Contribution

These labels are made to guide contributors to issue/pull requests that they
can help with.

*   **good first issue** - The issue described here is considered a good option
    for a new contributor. We encourage new contributors though to work on
    whichever issue they find most interesting, the ones labeled here as just
    estimated to have a reasonable level of complexity for someone new to the
    code base.
*   **help wanted** - The issue has not been claimed for work, and is awaiting
    willing volunteers!


### Type

Issues might have a light green `type: *` label,  which describes the type of
the issue.

*   **bug report** - An issue describing a bug in rubygems. This would be
    something that is broken, confusing, unexpected behavior etc.
*   **feature request** - An issue describing a request for a new feature or
    enhancement.
*   **question** - An issue that is a more of a question than a call for
    specific changes in the codebase.
*   **cleanup** - An issue that proposes cleanups to the code base without
    fixing a bug or implementing a feature.
*   **major bump** - This issue  request requires a major version bump
*   **administrative** - This issue relates to administrative tasks that need
    to take place as it relates to rubygems
*   **documentation** - This issue relates to improving the documentation for
    in this repo. Note that much of the rubygems documentation is here:
    https://github.com/rubygems/guides

Pull request might have a light orange `rubygems: *` or a light blue `bundler:
*` label which describes the pull request according to the following criteria:

*   **security fix** - A pull request that fixes a security issue.
*   **breaking change** - A pull request including any change that requires a
    major version bump.
*   **major enhancement** - A pull request including a backwards compatible
    change worth a special mention in the changelog
*   **deprecation** - A pull request that introduces a deprecation.
*   **feature** - A pull request implementing a feature request.
*   **deprecation** - A pull request that implements a performance improvement.
*   **documentation** - A pull request introducing documentation improvements
    worth mentioning to end users.
*   **minor enhancements** - A pull request introducing small but user visible changes.
*   **bug fix** - A pull request that fixes a bug report.

In the case of `bundler`, these labels are set by maintainers on PRs and have
special importance because they are used to automatically build the changelog.

### Workflow / Status

The light yellow `status: *` labels that indicate the state of an  issue,
where it is in the process from being submitted to being closed.  These are
listed in rough  progression order from submitted to closed.

*   **triage** - This is an issue or pull request that needs to be properly
    labeled by a maintainer.
*   **confirmed** - This issue/pull request has been accepted as valid, but is
    not yet immediately ready for work.
*   **ready** - An issue that is available for collaboration. This issue
    should have existing discussion on the problem, and a description of how
    to go about solving it.
*   **working** - An issue that has a specific individual assigned to and
    planning to do work on it.
*   **user feedback required** - The issue/pull request is blocked pending
    more feedback from an end user
*   **blocked / backlog** - the issue/pull request is currently unable to move
    forward because of some specific reason, generally this will be a reason
    that is outside RubyGems or needs feedback from some specific individual
    or group, and it may be a while before something it is resolved.


### Closed Reason

Reasons are why an issue / pull request was closed without being worked on or
accepted. There should also be more detailed information in the comments. The
closed reason labels are maroon `closed: *`.

*   **duplicate** - This is a duplicate of an existing bug. The comments must
    reference the existing issue.
*   **abandoned** - This is an issue/pull request that has aged off, is no
    longer applicable or similar.
*   **declined** - An issue that won't be fixed/implemented or a pull request
    that is not accepted.
*   **deprecated** - An issue/pull request that no longer applies to the
    actively maintained codebase.
*   **discussion** - An issue/pull that is no longer about a concrete change,
    and is instead being used for discussion.


### Categories

These are aspects of the codebase, or what general area the issue or pull
request pertains too. Not all issues will have a category. All categorized
issues have a blue `category: *` label.

*   **gemspec** - related to the gem specification itself
*   **API** - related to the public supported rubygems API. This is the code
    API, not a network related API.
*   **command** - related to something in `Gem::Commands`
*   **install** - related to gem installations
*   **documentation** - related to updating / fixing / clarifying
    documentation or guides


### Platforms

If an issue or pull request pertains to only one platform, then it should have
an appropriate purple `platform: *` label. Current platform labels:
**windows**, **java**, **osx**, **linux**

### Git

Please sign your commits. Although not required in order for you to contribute,
it ensures that any code submitted by you wasn't altered while you were
transferring it, and proves that it was you who submitted it and not someone
else.

Please see https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Signing-Your-Work or
https://help.github.com/en/articles/signing-commits for details on how to
to generate a signature and automatically sign your commits.

Commit message:

Document how to run rake setup under regular user
When running rake setup under regular user, it fails with permission
errors since it tries to install into global gem directory. Running it
under root is a workaround, however in that case bundler complains that
it should not run under root.

Setting GEM_HOME is a working solution, so it should be documented.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# How to contribute

Community involvement is essential to RubyGems. We want to keep it as easy as
possible to contribute changes. There are a few guidelines that we need
contributors to follow to reduce the time it takes to get changes merged in.

## Guidelines

1.  New features should be coupled with tests.

2.  Ensure that your code blends well with ours:
    *   No trailing whitespace
    *   Match indentation (two spaces)
    *   Match coding style (run `rake rubocop`)

3.  If any new files are added or existing files removed in a commit or PR,
    please update the `Manifest.txt` accordingly. This can be done by running
    `rake update_manifest`

4.  Don't modify the history file or version number.

5.  If you have any questions, Feel free to join us on Slack, you can register
    by signing up at http://slack.bundler.io or file an issue here:
    http://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/issues


For more information and ideas on how to contribute to RubyGems ecosystem, see
here: https://guides.rubygems.org/contributing/

## Getting Started

    rake setup

NOTE: If this fails with permission related errors, you're most likely using a
global Ruby installation (like the one packaged by your OS), which sets
`GEM_HOME` to a location regular users can't write to. Consider using a Ruby
version manager like RVM, Rbenv or Chruby (which install Ruby to a location
regular users can write to). Alternatively, consider setting `GEM_HOME`
environment variable to a writable location with something like
`export GEM_HOME=/tmp/rubygems.gems` and try again.

> Optionally you can configure git hooks with: rake git_hooks

To run commands like `gem install` from the repo:

    ruby -Ilib bin/gem install

To run commands like `bundle install` from the repo:

    ruby bundler/spec/support/bundle.rb install

### Running Tests

To run the entire test suite you can use: 

    rake test

To run an individual test file located for example in `test/rubygems/test_deprecate.rb` you can use: 

    ruby -Ilib:test:bundler/lib test/rubygems/test_deprecate.rb
    
And to run an individual test method named `test_default` within a test file, you can use: 

    ruby -Ilib:test:bundler/lib test/rubygems/test_deprecate.rb -n /test_default/

### Running bundler tests

Everything needs to be run from the `bundler/` subfolder.

To setup bundler tests:

    rake spec:parallel_deps

To run the entire bundler test suite in parallel (it takes a while):

    bin/parallel_rspec

To run the entire bundler test suite sequentially (get a coffee because it's very slow):

    bin/rspec

To run an individual test file location for example in `spec/install/gems/standalone_spec.rb` you can use:

    bin/rspec spec/install/gems/standalone_spec.rb

## Issues

RubyGems uses labels to track all issues and pull requests. In order to
provide guidance to the community this is documentation of how labels are used
in the rubygems repository.

### Contribution

These labels are made to guide contributors to issue/pull requests that they
can help with.

*   **good first issue** - The issue described here is considered a good option
    for a new contributor. We encourage new contributors though to work on
    whichever issue they find most interesting, the ones labeled here as just
    estimated to have a reasonable level of complexity for someone new to the
    code base.
*   **help wanted** - The issue has not been claimed for work, and is awaiting
    willing volunteers!


### Type

Issues might have a light green `type: *` label,  which describes the type of
the issue.

*   **bug report** - An issue describing a bug in rubygems. This would be
    something that is broken, confusing, unexpected behavior etc.
*   **feature request** - An issue describing a request for a new feature or
    enhancement.
*   **question** - An issue that is a more of a question than a call for
    specific changes in the codebase.
*   **cleanup** - An issue that proposes cleanups to the code base without
    fixing a bug or implementing a feature.
*   **major bump** - This issue  request requires a major version bump
*   **administrative** - This issue relates to administrative tasks that need
    to take place as it relates to rubygems
*   **documentation** - This issue relates to improving the documentation for
    in this repo. Note that much of the rubygems documentation is here:
    https://github.com/rubygems/guides

Pull request might have a light orange `rubygems: *` or a light blue `bundler:
*` label which describes the pull request according to the following criteria:

*   **security fix** - A pull request that fixes a security issue.
*   **breaking change** - A pull request including any change that requires a
    major version bump.
*   **major enhancement** - A pull request including a backwards compatible
    change worth a special mention in the changelog
*   **deprecation** - A pull request that introduces a deprecation.
*   **feature** - A pull request implementing a feature request.
*   **deprecation** - A pull request that implements a performance improvement.
*   **documentation** - A pull request introducing documentation improvements
    worth mentioning to end users.
*   **minor enhancements** - A pull request introducing small but user visible changes.
*   **bug fix** - A pull request that fixes a bug report.

In the case of `bundler`, these labels are set by maintainers on PRs and have
special importance because they are used to automatically build the changelog.

### Workflow / Status

The light yellow `status: *` labels that indicate the state of an  issue,
where it is in the process from being submitted to being closed.  These are
listed in rough  progression order from submitted to closed.

*   **triage** - This is an issue or pull request that needs to be properly
    labeled by a maintainer.
*   **confirmed** - This issue/pull request has been accepted as valid, but is
    not yet immediately ready for work.
*   **ready** - An issue that is available for collaboration. This issue
    should have existing discussion on the problem, and a description of how
    to go about solving it.
*   **working** - An issue that has a specific individual assigned to and
    planning to do work on it.
*   **user feedback required** - The issue/pull request is blocked pending
    more feedback from an end user
*   **blocked / backlog** - the issue/pull request is currently unable to move
    forward because of some specific reason, generally this will be a reason
    that is outside RubyGems or needs feedback from some specific individual
    or group, and it may be a while before something it is resolved.


### Closed Reason

Reasons are why an issue / pull request was closed without being worked on or
accepted. There should also be more detailed information in the comments. The
closed reason labels are maroon `closed: *`.

*   **duplicate** - This is a duplicate of an existing bug. The comments must
    reference the existing issue.
*   **abandoned** - This is an issue/pull request that has aged off, is no
    longer applicable or similar.
*   **declined** - An issue that won't be fixed/implemented or a pull request
    that is not accepted.
*   **deprecated** - An issue/pull request that no longer applies to the
    actively maintained codebase.
*   **discussion** - An issue/pull that is no longer about a concrete change,
    and is instead being used for discussion.


### Categories

These are aspects of the codebase, or what general area the issue or pull
request pertains too. Not all issues will have a category. All categorized
issues have a blue `category: *` label.

*   **gemspec** - related to the gem specification itself
*   **API** - related to the public supported rubygems API. This is the code
    API, not a network related API.
*   **command** - related to something in `Gem::Commands`
*   **install** - related to gem installations
*   **documentation** - related to updating / fixing / clarifying
    documentation or guides


### Platforms

If an issue or pull request pertains to only one platform, then it should have
an appropriate purple `platform: *` label. Current platform labels:
**windows**, **java**, **osx**, **linux**

### Git

Please sign your commits. Although not required in order for you to contribute,
it ensures that any code submitted by you wasn't altered while you were
transferring it, and proves that it was you who submitted it and not someone
else.

Please see https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Signing-Your-Work or
https://help.github.com/en/articles/signing-commits for details on how to
to generate a signature and automatically sign your commits.
