bundler/UPGRADING.md, before:

# Upgrading

## Bundler 3

The following is a summary of the changes that we plan to introduce in Bundler
3, why we will be making those changes, and what the deprecation process will
look like. All these deprecations are printed by default in the Bundler 2.1 release.

If you don't want to deal with deprecations right now and want to toggle them
off, you can do it through configuration. Set the `BUNDLE_SILENCE_DEPRECATIONS`
environment variable to "true", or configure it through `bundle config` either
globally through `bundle config set --global silence_deprecations true` command, or
locally through `bundle config set --local silence_deprecations true`. From now
on in this document we will assume that all three of these configuration options
are available, but will only mention `bundle config set <option> <value>`.

As a general note, these changes are intended to improve the experience using
bundler for _new_ users, who have no existing usage routines nor possibly biased
opinions about how the tool should work based on how it has historically worked.
We do understand that changing behaviour that have been existing for years can
be annoying for old users, that's why we intend to make this process as smooth
as possible for everyone.

I'll be dividing the deprecations into four groups: CLI deprecations, Helper
deprecations, DSL deprecations, and misc deprecations. Let's dive into each of
them.

#### CLI deprecations

The CLI defines a set of commands and options that can be used by our users to
create command lines that bundler can understand. There's a number of changes
in the upcoming 3 version.

* Flags passed to `bundle install` that relied on being remembered across invocations have been deprecated.

  In particular, the `--clean`, `--deployment`, `--frozen`,
  `--no-prune`, `--path`, `--shebang`, `--system`, `--without`, and `--with`
  options to `bundle install`.

  Remembering CLI options has been a source of historical confusion and bug
  reports, not only for beginners but also for experienced users. A CLI tool
  should not behave differently across exactly the same invocations _unless_
  explicitly configured to do so. This is what configuration is about after all,
  and things should never be silently configured without the user knowing about
  it.

  The problem with changing this behavior is that very common workflows are
  relying on it. For example, when you run `bundle install --without
  development:test` in production, those flags are persisted in the app's
  configuration file and further `bundle` invocations will happily ignore
  development and test gems.  This magic will disappear from bundler 3, and
  you will explicitly need to configure it, either through environment
  variables, application configuration, or machine configuration. For example,
  with `bundle config set --local without development test`.

  The removal of this kind of flag also applies to analogous commands, for
  example, to `bundle check --path`.

* The `--force` flag to `bundle install` and `bundle update` has been renamed to `--redownload`.

  This is just a simple rename of the flag, to make more apparent what it
  actually does. This flag forces redownloading every gem, it doesn't "force"
  anything else.

* `bundle viz` will be removed and extracted to a plugin.

  This is the only bundler command requiring external dependencies, both an OS
  dependency (the `graphviz` package) and a gem dependency (the `ruby-graphviz`
  gem). Removing these dependencies will make development easier and it was also
  seen by the bundler team as an opportunity to develop a bundler plugin that
  it's officially maintained by the bundler team, and that users can take as a
  reference to develop their own plugins. The plugin will contain the same code
  as the old core command, the only difference being that the command is now
  implemented as `bundle graph` which is much easier to understand. However, the
  details of the plugin are under discussion. See [#3333](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/issues/3333).

* The `bundle console` will be removed and replaced with `bin/console`.

  Over time we found `bundle console` hard to maintain because every user would
  want to add her own specific tweaks to it. In order to ease maintenance and
  reduce bikeshedding discussions, we're removing the `bundle console` command
  in favor of a `bin/console` script created by `bundle gem` on gem generation
  that users can tweak to their needs.

* ~The `bundle update` command will no longer update all gems, you'll need to pass `--all` to it.~ (postponed)

* The `bundle install` command will no longer accept a `--binstubs` flag.

  The `--binstubs` option has been removed from `bundle install` and replaced
  with the `bundle binstubs` command. The `--binstubs` flag would create
  binstubs for all executables present inside the gems in the project. This was
  hardly useful since most users will only use a subset of all the binstubs
  available to them. Also, it would force the introduction of a bunch of most
  likely unused files into source control. Because of this, binstubs now must
  be created and checked into version control individually.

* ~The `bundle config` command has a new subcommand-based interface.~ (postponed)

* The `bundle inject` command is deprecated and replaced with `bundle add`.

  We believe the new command fits the user's mental model better and it supports
  a wider set of use cases. The interface supported by `bundle inject` works
  exactly the same in `bundle add`, so it should be easy to migrate to the new
  command.

#### Helper deprecations

* `Bundler.clean_env`, `Bundler.with_clean_env`, `Bundler.clean_system`, and `Bundler.clean_exec` are deprecated.

  All of these helpers ultimately use `Bundler.clean_env` under the hood, which
  makes sure all bundler-related environment are removed inside the block it
  yields.

  After quite a lot user reports, we noticed that users don't usually want this
  but instead want the bundler environment as it was before the current process
  was started. Thus, `Bundler.with_original_env`, `Bundler.original_system`, and
  `Bundler.original_exec` were born. They all use the new `Bundler.original_env`
  under the hood.

  There's however some specific cases where the good old `Bundler.clean_env`
  behavior can be useful. For example, when testing Rails generators, you really
  want an environment where `bundler` is out of the picture. This is why we
  decided to keep the old behavior under a new more clear name, because we
  figured the word "clean" was too ambiguous. So we have introduced
  `Bundler.unbundled_env`, `Bundler.with_unbundled_env`,
  `Bundler.unbundled_system`, and `Bundler.unbundled_exec`.

* `Bundler.environment` is deprecated in favor of `Bundler.load`.

  We're not sure how people might be using this directly but we have removed the
  `Bundler::Environment` class which was instantiated by `Bundler.environment`
  since we realized the `Bundler::Runtime` class was the same thing. During the
  transition `Bundler.environment` will delegate to `Bundler.load`, which holds
  the reference to the `Bundler::Environment`.

#### DSL deprecations

The following deprecations in bundler's DSL are meant to prepare for the strict
source pinning in bundler 3, where the source for every dependency will be
unambiguously defined.

* Multiple global Gemfile sources will no longer be supported.

  Instead of something like this:

  ```ruby
  source "https://main_source"
  source "https://another_source"

  gem "dependency1"
  gem "dependency2"
  ```

  do something like this:

  ```ruby
  source "https://main_source"

  gem "dependency1"

  source "https://another_source" do
    gem "dependency2"
  end
  ```

* Global `path` and `git` sources will no longer be supported.

  Instead of something like this:

  ```ruby
  path "/my/path/with/gems"
  git "https://my_git_repo_with_gems"

  gem "dependency1"
  gem "dependency2"
  ```

  do something like this:

  ```ruby
  gem "dependency1", path: "/my/path/with/gems"
  gem "dependency2", git: "https://my_git_repo_with_gems"
  ```

  or use the block forms if you have multiple gems for each source and you want
  to be a bit DRYer:


  ```ruby
  path "/my/path/with/gems" do
    # gem "dependency1"
    # ...
    # gem "dependencyn"
  end

  git "https://my_git_repo_with_gems" do
    # gem "dependency1"
    # ...
    # gem "dependencyn"
  end
  ```

#### Misc deprecations

* Deployment helpers for `vlad` and `capistrano` are being removed.

  These are natural deprecations since the `vlad` tool has had no activity for
  years whereas `capistrano` 3 has built-in Bundler integration in the form of
  the `capistrano-bundler` gem, and everyone using Capistrano 3 should be
  already using that instead. If for some reason, you are still using Capistrano
  2, feel free to copy the Capistrano tasks out of the Bundler 2 file
  `lib/bundler/deployment.rb` and put them into your app.

  In general, we don't want to maintain integrations for every deployment system
  out there, so that's why we are removing these.

Commit message:

Bundler: explain cancelled CLI deprecations clearly
Signed-off-by: Takuya Noguchi <takninnovationresearch@gmail.com>

bundler/UPGRADING.md, after:

# Upgrading

## Bundler 3

The following is a summary of the changes that we plan to introduce in Bundler
3, why we will be making those changes, and what the deprecation process will
look like. All these deprecations are printed by default in the Bundler 2.1 release.

If you don't want to deal with deprecations right now and want to toggle them
off, you can do it through configuration. Set the `BUNDLE_SILENCE_DEPRECATIONS`
environment variable to "true", or configure it through `bundle config` either
globally through `bundle config set --global silence_deprecations true` command, or
locally through `bundle config set --local silence_deprecations true`. From now
on in this document we will assume that all three of these configuration options
are available, but will only mention `bundle config set <option> <value>`.

As a general note, these changes are intended to improve the experience using
bundler for _new_ users, who have no existing usage routines nor possibly biased
opinions about how the tool should work based on how it has historically worked.
We do understand that changing behaviour that have been existing for years can
be annoying for old users, that's why we intend to make this process as smooth
as possible for everyone.

I'll be dividing the deprecations into four groups: CLI deprecations, Helper
deprecations, DSL deprecations, and misc deprecations. Let's dive into each of
them.

### CLI deprecations

The CLI defines a set of commands and options that can be used by our users to
create command lines that bundler can understand. There's a number of changes
in the upcoming 3 version.

* Flags passed to `bundle install` that relied on being remembered across invocations have been deprecated.

  In particular, the `--clean`, `--deployment`, `--frozen`,
  `--no-prune`, `--path`, `--shebang`, `--system`, `--without`, and `--with`
  options to `bundle install`.

  Remembering CLI options has been a source of historical confusion and bug
  reports, not only for beginners but also for experienced users. A CLI tool
  should not behave differently across exactly the same invocations _unless_
  explicitly configured to do so. This is what configuration is about after all,
  and things should never be silently configured without the user knowing about
  it.

  The problem with changing this behavior is that very common workflows are
  relying on it. For example, when you run `bundle install --without
  development:test` in production, those flags are persisted in the app's
  configuration file and further `bundle` invocations will happily ignore
  development and test gems.  This magic will disappear from bundler 3, and
  you will explicitly need to configure it, either through environment
  variables, application configuration, or machine configuration. For example,
  with `bundle config set --local without development test`.

  The removal of this kind of flag also applies to analogous commands, for
  example, to `bundle check --path`.

* The `--force` flag to `bundle install` and `bundle update` has been renamed to `--redownload`.

  This is just a simple rename of the flag, to make more apparent what it
  actually does. This flag forces redownloading every gem, it doesn't "force"
  anything else.

* `bundle viz` will be removed and extracted to a plugin.

  This is the only bundler command requiring external dependencies, both an OS
  dependency (the `graphviz` package) and a gem dependency (the `ruby-graphviz`
  gem). Removing these dependencies will make development easier and it was also
  seen by the bundler team as an opportunity to develop a bundler plugin that
  it's officially maintained by the bundler team, and that users can take as a
  reference to develop their own plugins. The plugin will contain the same code
  as the old core command, the only difference being that the command is now
  implemented as `bundle graph` which is much easier to understand. However, the
  details of the plugin are under discussion. See [#3333](https://github.com/rubygems/rubygems/issues/3333).

* The `bundle console` will be removed and replaced with `bin/console`.

  Over time we found `bundle console` hard to maintain because every user would
  want to add her own specific tweaks to it. In order to ease maintenance and
  reduce bikeshedding discussions, we're removing the `bundle console` command
  in favor of a `bin/console` script created by `bundle gem` on gem generation
  that users can tweak to their needs.


* The `bundle install` command will no longer accept a `--binstubs` flag.

  The `--binstubs` option has been removed from `bundle install` and replaced
  with the `bundle binstubs` command. The `--binstubs` flag would create
  binstubs for all executables present inside the gems in the project. This was
  hardly useful since most users will only use a subset of all the binstubs
  available to them. Also, it would force the introduction of a bunch of most
  likely unused files into source control. Because of this, binstubs now must
  be created and checked into version control individually.


* The `bundle inject` command is deprecated and replaced with `bundle add`.

  We believe the new command fits the user's mental model better and it supports
  a wider set of use cases. The interface supported by `bundle inject` works
  exactly the same in `bundle add`, so it should be easy to migrate to the new
  command.

#### Cancelled CLI deprecations

These deprecations have been initally announced before, but the deprecations
were cancelled before the release of Bundler 2.1.0 in [rubygems/bundler#7475](https://github.com/rubygems/bundler/pull/7475).

* ~The `bundle update` command will no longer update all gems, you'll need to pass `--all` to it.~ (postponed)

* ~The `bundle config` command will no longer accept old subcommand-based interface before Bundler 2.1.~ (postponed)

### Helper deprecations

* `Bundler.clean_env`, `Bundler.with_clean_env`, `Bundler.clean_system`, and `Bundler.clean_exec` are deprecated.

  All of these helpers ultimately use `Bundler.clean_env` under the hood, which
  makes sure all bundler-related environment are removed inside the block it
  yields.

  After quite a lot user reports, we noticed that users don't usually want this
  but instead want the bundler environment as it was before the current process
  was started. Thus, `Bundler.with_original_env`, `Bundler.original_system`, and
  `Bundler.original_exec` were born. They all use the new `Bundler.original_env`
  under the hood.

  There's however some specific cases where the good old `Bundler.clean_env`
  behavior can be useful. For example, when testing Rails generators, you really
  want an environment where `bundler` is out of the picture. This is why we
  decided to keep the old behavior under a new more clear name, because we
  figured the word "clean" was too ambiguous. So we have introduced
  `Bundler.unbundled_env`, `Bundler.with_unbundled_env`,
  `Bundler.unbundled_system`, and `Bundler.unbundled_exec`.

* `Bundler.environment` is deprecated in favor of `Bundler.load`.

  We're not sure how people might be using this directly but we have removed the
  `Bundler::Environment` class which was instantiated by `Bundler.environment`
  since we realized the `Bundler::Runtime` class was the same thing. During the
  transition `Bundler.environment` will delegate to `Bundler.load`, which holds
  the reference to the `Bundler::Environment`.

#### DSL deprecations

The following deprecations in bundler's DSL are meant to prepare for the strict
source pinning in bundler 3, where the source for every dependency will be
unambiguously defined.

* Multiple global Gemfile sources will no longer be supported.

  Instead of something like this:

  ```ruby
  source "https://main_source"
  source "https://another_source"

  gem "dependency1"
  gem "dependency2"
  ```

  do something like this:

  ```ruby
  source "https://main_source"

  gem "dependency1"

  source "https://another_source" do
    gem "dependency2"
  end
  ```

* Global `path` and `git` sources will no longer be supported.

  Instead of something like this:

  ```ruby
  path "/my/path/with/gems"
  git "https://my_git_repo_with_gems"

  gem "dependency1"
  gem "dependency2"
  ```

  do something like this:

  ```ruby
  gem "dependency1", path: "/my/path/with/gems"
  gem "dependency2", git: "https://my_git_repo_with_gems"
  ```

  or use the block forms if you have multiple gems for each source and you want
  to be a bit DRYer:


  ```ruby
  path "/my/path/with/gems" do
    # gem "dependency1"
    # ...
    # gem "dependencyn"
  end

  git "https://my_git_repo_with_gems" do
    # gem "dependency1"
    # ...
    # gem "dependencyn"
  end
  ```

#### Misc deprecations

* Deployment helpers for `vlad` and `capistrano` are being removed.

  These are natural deprecations since the `vlad` tool has had no activity for
  years whereas `capistrano` 3 has built-in Bundler integration in the form of
  the `capistrano-bundler` gem, and everyone using Capistrano 3 should be
  already using that instead. If for some reason, you are still using Capistrano
  2, feel free to copy the Capistrano tasks out of the Bundler 2 file
  `lib/bundler/deployment.rb` and put them into your app.

  In general, we don't want to maintain integrations for every deployment system
  out there, so that's why we are removing these.
