= Announce: RubyGems Release 0.8.9

Version 0.8.9 is bug fix release.  In multi-user environments, it is
common to supply mulitple versions of gems (for example Rails),
allowing individual users to select the version of the gem they
desire.  This allows a user to be insulated from updates to that gem.
RubyGems 0.8.9 fixes a problem where gems could occasionally become
confused about the current versions of libraries selected by the user.

== What is RubyGems?

RubyGems is a package management system for Ruby applications and
libraries.  RubyGems one command download makes installing Ruby software
fun and enjoyable again. (Ok, not really.)

Many gems are available for download from the RubyForge site.  Browse
the list of gems with a "gem list --remote" command and download what
you need with a simple "gem install <name-of-gem>".  RubyGems takes care
of the details of installing, not only the gem you requested, but also
any gems needed by the software you selected.

== RubyGems Statistics

* About 230 different gems available (I say _about_ because I don't
  think "Bangkok" and "bangkok" are really different gems).
* Over 30,000 downloads of the RubyGems software
* 230075 gem loads

If you are interested in finding out when new gems are release, there
is an RSS feed at http://onestepback.org/gemwatch.rss.

== How can I get RubyGems?

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (again, might need to be admin/root)

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb all  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== Thanks

Thanks to Tobias Luetke for reporting the problem and assisting in
tracking it down.

Keep those gems coming!

-- Jim & Chad (for the RubyGems team)
