= Announce: RubyGems Release 1.1.1

Release 1.1.1 fixes some bugs.

Bugs Fixed:

* Gem.prefix now returns non-nil only when RubyGems was installed outside
  sitelibdir or libdir.
* The `gem server` gem list now correctly links to gem details.
* `gem update --system` now passes --no-format-executable to setup.rb.
* Gem::SourceIndex#refresh! now works with multiple gem repositories.
* Downloaded gems now go into --install-dir's cache directory.
* Various fixes to downloading gem metadata.
* `gem install --force` now ignores network errors too.
* `gem pristine` now rebuilds extensions.
* `gem update --system` now works on virgin Apple ruby.
* Gem::RemoteFetcher handles Errno::ECONNABORTED.
* Printing of release notes fixed.

For a full list of changes to RubyGems including credits, see the ChangeLog
file.

== How can I get RubyGems?

NOTE:  If you have installed RubyGems using a package system you may want to
install a new RubyGems through the same packaging system.

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (you might need to be admin/root)

(Note: You may have to run the command twice if you have any previosly
installed rubygems-update gems).

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== To File Bugs

The RubyGems bug tracker can be found on RubyForge at:
http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?func=add&group_id=126&atid=575

When filing a bug, `gem env` output will be helpful in diagnosing the issue.

If you find a bug where RubyGems crashes, please provide debug output. You can
do that with `gem --debug the_command`.

== Thanks

Keep those gems coming!

-- Jim & Chad & Eric (for the RubyGems team)

