= Announce: RubyGems Release 0.9.4

Release 0.9.4 is a maintenance release of RubyGems that fixes a number of small bugs.

If you are experiencing problems with the source index (e.g. strange
"No Method" errors), or problems with zlib (e.g. "Buffer Error"
messsage), we recommend upgrading to RubyGems 0.9.4.

Bug Fixes Include:

* Several people have been experiencing problems with no method errors
  on the source index cache.  The source index cache is now a bit more
  self healing.  Furthermore, if the source index cache is
  irreparable, then it is automatically dropped and reloaded.

* The source cache files may now be dropped with the "gem sources
  --clear-all" command.  (This command may require root is the system
  source cache is in a root protected area).

* Several sub-commands were accidently dropped from the "gem" command.
  These commands have been restored.

== What is RubyGems?

RubyGems is a package management system for Ruby applications and
libraries.  RubyGems one command download makes installing Ruby
software fun and enjoyable again. (Ok, not really.)

Many gems are available for download from the RubyForge site.  Browse
the list of gems with a "gem list --remote" command and download what
you need with a simple "gem install <name-of-gem>".  RubyGems takes
care of the details of installing, not only the gem you requested, but
also any gems needed by the software you selected.

== How can I get RubyGems?

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (you might need to be admin/root)

(Note: You may have to run the command twice if you have any previosly
installed rubygems-update gems).

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb all  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== What's Next

The next big thing on the plate is to integrate the local/remote gem
logic and make the whole thing more consistent. 

== Thanks

Keep those gems coming!

-- Jim & Chad (for the RubyGems team)
