= Announce: RubyGems Release 1.1.0

Release 1.1.0 adds some new features and fixes some bugs.

New features:

* RubyGems now uses persistent connections on index updates.  Index updates are
  much faster now.
* RubyGems only updates from a latest index by default, cutting candidate gems
  for updates to roughly 1/4 (at present).  Index updates are even faster
  still.
  * `gem list -r` may only show the latest version of a gem, add --all to see
    all gems.
* `gem spec` now extracts specifications from .gem files.
* `gem query --installed` to aid automation of checking for gems.

Bugs Fixed:

* RubyGems works with both Config and RbConfig now.
* Executables are now cleaned upon uninstall.
* You can now uninstall from a particular directory.
* Updating from non-default sources fixed.
* Executable stubs now use ruby install name in shebang.
* `gem unpack` checks every directory in Gem.path now.
* `gem install` now exits with non-zero exit code when appropriate.
* `gem update` only updates gems that need updates.
* `gem update` doesn't force remote-only updates.
* `gem update` handles dependencies properly when updating.
* Gems are now loaded in Gem.path order.
* Gem stub scripts on windows now work outside Gem.bindir.
* `gem sources -r` now works without network access.

Other Changes Include:

* RubyGems now requires Ruby > 1.8.3.
* Release notes are now printed upon installation.
* `gem env path` now prints a usable path.
* `gem install` reverts to local-only installation upon network error.
* Tar handling code refactoring and cleanup.
* Gem::DependencyInstaller's API has changed.

For a full list of changes to RubyGems, see the ChangeLog file.

== How can I get RubyGems?

NOTE:  If you have installed RubyGems using a package system you may want to
install a new RubyGems through the same packaging system.

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (you might need to be admin/root)

(Note: You may have to run the command twice if you have any previosly
installed rubygems-update gems).

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== To File Bugs

The RubyGems bug tracker can be found on RubyForge at:
http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?func=add&group_id=126&atid=575

When filing a bug, `gem env` output will be helpful in diagnosing the issue.

If you find a bug where RubyGems crashes, please provide debug output. You can
do that with `gem --debug the_command`.

== Thanks

Keep those gems coming!

-- Jim & Chad & Eric (for the RubyGems team)

