= Announce: RubyGems Release 1.3.2

NOTE:  RubyGems 1.1 and 1.2 have problems upgrading when there is no
rubygems-update installed.  You will need to follow the second set of update
instructions if you see "Nothing to update".

Release 1.3.2 fixes some bugs and adds some features.

Select New Features:

* RubyGems now loads plugins from rubygems_plugin.rb in installed gems.
  This can be used to add commands (See Gem::CommandManager) or add
  install/uninstall hooks (See Gem::Installer and Gem::Uninstaller).
* Gem::Version now understands prerelease versions using letters. (eg.
  '1.2.1.b')  Thanks to Josh Susser, Alex Vollmer and Phil Hagelberg.
* RubyGems now includes a Rake task for creating gems which replaces rake's
  Rake::GemPackageTask.  See Gem::PackageTask.
* Gem::find_files now returns paths in $LOAD_PATH.
* Added Gem::promote_load_path for use with Gem::find_files
* Added Gem::bin_path to make finding executables easier.  Patch #24114 by
  James Tucker.
* Various improvements to build arguments for installing gems.
* `gem contents` added --all and --no-prefix.
* Gem::Specification
  * #validate strips directories and errors on not-files.
  * #description no longer removes newlines.
  * #name must be a String.
  * FIXME and TODO are no longer allowed in various fields.
  * Added support for a license attribute.  Feature #11041 (partial).
  * Removed Gem::Specification::list, too much process growth.  Bug #23668 by
    Steve Purcell.
* `gem generate_index`
  * Can now generate an RSS feed.
  * Modern indicies can now be updated incrementally.
  * Legacy indicies can be updated separately from modern.

Select Bugs Fixed:

* Better gem activation error message. Patch #23082.
* Kernel methods are now private.  Patch #20801 by James M. Lawrence.
* Fixed various usability issues with `gem check`.
* `gem update` now rescues InstallError and continues.  Bug #19268 by Gabriel
  Wilkins.
* Allow 'https', 'file' as a valid schemes for --source.  Patch #22485.
* `gem install`
  * Now removes existing path before installing.  Bug #22837.
  * Uses Gem::bin_path in executable stubs to work around Kernel#load bug in
    1.9.
  * Correctly handle build args (after --) via the API.  Bug #23210.
* --user-install
  * `gem install --no-user-install` now works.  Patch #23573 by Alf Mikula.
  * `gem uninstall` can now uninstall from ~/.gem.  Bug #23760 by Roger Pack.
* setup.rb
  * Clarify RubyGems RDoc installation location.  Bug #22656 by Gian Marco
    Gherardi.
  * Allow setup to run from read-only location.  Patch #21862 by Luis Herrera.
  * Fixed overwriting ruby executable when BASERUBY was not set.  Bug #24958
    by Michael Soulier.
  * Ensure we're in a RubyGems dir when installing.
  * Deal with extraneous quotation mark when autogenerating .bat file on MS
    Windows.  Bug #22712.

Deprecation Notices:

* Gem::manage_gems has been removed.
* Time::today will be removed in RubyGems 1.4.

For a full list of changes to RubyGems and the contributor for each change, see
the ChangeLog file.

Special thanks to Chad Wooley for backwards compatibility testing and Luis
Lavena and Daniel Berger for continuing windows support.

== How can I get RubyGems?

NOTE:  If you have installed RubyGems using a package system you may want to
install a new RubyGems through the same packaging system.

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (you might need to be admin/root)

NOTE:  RubyGems 1.1 and 1.2 have problems upgrading when there is no
rubygems-update installed.  You will need to follow the second set of update
instructions if you see "Nothing to update".

NOTE: You may have to run the command twice if you have any previosly
installed rubygems-update gems.

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== To File Bugs

The RubyGems bug tracker can be found on RubyForge at:
http://rubyforge.org/tracker/?func=add&group_id=126&atid=575

When filing a bug, `gem env` output will be helpful in diagnosing the issue.

If you find a bug where RubyGems crashes, please provide debug output. You can
do that with `gem --debug the_command`.

== Thanks

Keep those gems coming!

-- The RubyGems team

