= Announce: RubyGems Release 0.9.2

Release 0.9.2 is a maintenance release of RubyGems that fix some minor
bugs in the 0.9.1 release.  

Bug Fixes Include:

* The "unpack" command now works properly.
* User name and password are now passed properly to the authenticating
  proxy when downloading gems.

== What is RubyGems?

RubyGems is a package management system for Ruby applications and
libraries.  RubyGems one command download makes installing Ruby software
fun and enjoyable again. (Ok, not really.)

Many gems are available for download from the RubyForge site.  Browse
the list of gems with a "gem list --remote" command and download what
you need with a simple "gem install <name-of-gem>".  RubyGems takes care
of the details of installing, not only the gem you requested, but also
any gems needed by the software you selected.

== RubyGems Statistics

* About 1300 different gems are available from RubyForge
* Over 500 thousand downloads of the RubyGems software
* Over 8.5 million gem downloads

If you are interested in finding out when new gems are released, I
maintain an RSS feed at http://onestepback.org/gemwatch.rss.

== How can I get RubyGems?

If you have a recent version of RubyGems (0.8.5 or later), then all
you need to do is:

  $ gem update --system   (you might need to be admin/root)

(Note: You may have to run the command twice if you have any previosly
installed rubygems-update gems).

If you have an older version of RubyGems installed, then you can still
do it in two steps:

  $ gem install rubygems-update  (again, might need to be admin/root)
  $ update_rubygems              (... here too)

If you don't have any gems install, there is still the pre-gem
approach to getting software ... doing it manually:

1. DOWNLOAD FROM: http://rubyforge.org/frs/?group_id=126
2. UNPACK INTO A DIRECTORY AND CD THERE
3. INSTALL WITH:  ruby setup.rb all  (you may need admin/root privilege)

== What's Next

The next big thing on the plate is to integrate the local/remote gem
logic and make the whole thing more consistent. 

== Thanks

Major contributors to this release include:

* Anatol Pomozov

Keep those gems coming!

-- Jim & Chad (for the RubyGems team)
